p: I've just had some diarrhea for the last three days, and it's been affecting my day-to-day activities.
d: When you say diarrhea, do you mean going to the toilet more often, or are your stools more loose?
p: Loose and watery stool, going to the toilet quite often, and some pain in my lower stomach.
d: How many times a day are you going, in the last couple of days?
p: Probably six or seven times a day.
d: Have you noticed any other things, like blood in your stools?
p: No blood, just watery and loose stool.
d: Whereabouts is the pain, exactly?
p: In my lower abdomen, just to one side, on the left side.
d: Can you describe the pain to me?
p: It feels like a cramp, a muscular cramp, and I feel a bit weak and shaky.
d: Is the pain there all the time, or does it come and go?
p: It comes and goes.
d: Does the pain move anywhere else, for example towards your back?
p: No, just my stomach.
d: Have you been feeling feverish?
p: It doesn't feel like -- it just makes me feel weak. I haven't had a fever at the moment, but I did notice a temperature when the symptoms started, around three or four days ago.
d: Did you measure your temperature?
p: I didn't measure it, but I felt a bit hot.
d: Any other symptoms like sweating or night sweats? Any vomiting at all?
p: I vomited at the start of the symptoms but now I've stopped vomiting.
d: Was your vomit just normal food colour? No blood in your vomit?
p: Just normal vomit, no blood.
d: Any other symptoms at all? So tummy pain, diarrhea, vomiting, anything else?
p: I had a loss of appetite, so I haven't been eating as much, but I've been able to hold down fluids.
d: What kind of foods have you managed to eat?
p: Just soups, and light foods. Smoothies and liquid foods mainly.
d: These symptoms started three days ago. Are you aware of any triggers, like takeaway foods or eating out or being around other people with similar symptoms?
p: I had takeaway about four days ago, but other than that I've been eating normally.
d: Do you remember where you ate?
p: I ate at a Chinese restaurant with friends.
d: Anyone else unwell with similar symptoms?
p: No one else in the family -- a wife and two kids -- and one child was vomiting, but they haven't got diarrhea. No one with the same symptoms.
d: In terms of your overall health, are you normally fit and well?
p: Other than asthma, I use an inhaler, everything else is fine.
d: Is your asthma well-controlled?
p: Yeah, that's fine, under control.
d: You don't have any other tummy problem, bowel problems I should be aware of?
p: No.
d: Apart from the inhalers, do you take any other medications?
p: No other medications.
d: In what way has it been affecting your day to day life?
p: I need to stay close to the toilet 'cause I go quite frequently during these past three days.
d: Are you currently working at the moment?
p: I'm an accountant.
d: Have you been going into work the last three days, or have you been at home?
p: I've been going to work. It's been quite difficult.
d: You mentioned you live with your wife and two children, is that right?
p: Yes.
d: Do you smoke at all?
p: No, I don't smoke.
d: Do you drink much in the way of alcohol?
p: No, I don't drink alcohol.
d: Recapping: for the last three days you've been having loose stool, diarrhea, tummy pain mainly on the left-hand side, vomiting and fever, and you're quite weak and lethargic. You mentioned this Chinese takeaway three days ago -- I wondered whether that might be the cause. It seems like you may have gastroenteritis, essentially a tummy bug or infection of your tummy, mainly caused by viruses but there can be a possibility of bacteria.
d: What we'd recommend is conservative management. I don't think you need antibiotics. It's really just making sure you're well hydrated, drinking fluids. There are things like Dioralyte you can get from the pharmacy, which helps replenish your minerals and vitamins. If you are having vomiting diarrhea I'd recommend that in the first couple of days. If you are feeling feverish and weak, taking some paracetamol, two tablets up to four times a day for the first few days can also help. I will certainly advise you to take some time off work -- the next two to three days as the infection clears from your system, to take some time off and rest. If your symptoms haven't got better in three to four days, I'd like to come and see you again, because if it is ongoing then we have to wonder whether something else caused your symptoms. We may need to do further tests like taking a sample of your stool so we can test that.
d: Do you have any questions for me?
p: No further questions.
d: Is the treatment plan clear?
p: Yes, that's very clear.
