d: Could I confirm your full name and date of birth please?
p: Jack Smith, thirty first October nineteen ninety.
d: Tell me what's been going on, there's a problem with your hearing?
p: I just feel I can't really hear as well as I used to, my hearing is kind of deteriorating in some way.
d: How long has this been going on for?
p: About six weeks.
d: Before that, have you had any hearing problem at all?
p: I had something maybe about a year ago, but it only lasted a couple of days, nothing as long as this.
d: In this six week period, have you had any other ear symptoms at all?
p: I occasionally get like a ringing in my left ear, just on the one side, and there's actually been a few times when I felt kind of a bit sick or a bit dizzy as well.
d: The difficulty in hearing, is that both ears or just the left ear?
p: Just the left ear.
d: Your right ear is fine. So ringing, difficulty hearing in the left ear, and feeling slightly sick -- has that been on and off for the six weeks, or continuous?
p: It's kind of on and off. Some things trigger it -- if I'm watching TV or listening to music that'll help the ringing in the ear.
d: Have you had any pain from the ear at all?
p: No.
d: Any discharge coming out of the ear? Have you been experiencing any fever?
p: Not specifically, apart from the dizziness.
d: Do you use cotton buds to try and clean out wax from your ears?
p: Yeah.
d: You shouldn't be doing that, it doesn't clean up wax, it pushes it back in. The first thing we need to do is get someone to have a look inside your ear, to exclude simple things like impacted wax blocking the tube going into the eardrum, which can lead to muffled hearing -- that's easily fixable. After that we can consider other potential possibilities, and for that we need to have a look inside the eardrum. Maybe we book you in for a face-to-face appointment in one of our clinics, not an emergency, within the next four or five days. I'll send a message to our admin team to slot you into a clinic, and one of the GPs will have a quick look in the ear and figure out whether there's a physical blockage or something else going on.
d: Can I double check, the dizziness you've been getting, how severe is it?
p: Nothing major, it's not the kind of dizziness you get with nausea, not proper room spinning, just a little bit off balance.
d: Have you had any chest pain with it?
p: No.
d: Any palpitations, heart beating fast?
p: No.
d: Let's get your ear checked out, that's the most sensible thing to do, then we'll be a step closer to figuring out which way to go -- it might be a problem inside the drum or the balance system within the ear, but we need to exclude physical blockage first.
p: Is that the sort of thing that can cause this ringing I've got in my ear?
d: The ringing you've got is something called Tinnitus. It's something we don't really understand fully, we can't give you a specific cause for why some patients get Tinnitus and some don't, it can be triggered by a wide range of different things. I'm going to paste the link for a leaflet about Tinnitus in the notes for this appointment, I'd appreciate it if you could start reading about it -- awareness of what it is and the treatment options helps us in terms of conversation about what we do next, if your ear is clear. We'll see you in about four, five days time, it won't be with me, it'll be another GP, but they'll have my notes and know exactly what my question is, which is just to check your ears.
d: Bear with me five minutes and then you can ring the support team, I'll leave the number in the notes, ring them and they'll slot you in. If there's any issues between now and the clinic appointment, just book another appointment and speak to one of us over video.
